I was born in Congo, my family died, we had to flee, there was a wall going on.
One thing I remember is the bombs and the shootings that were behind us as we were running.
Here people screaming too, each day we live, each step we took,
we knew that something was going to happen to adults, we never knew if we were going to survive.
My mom and I were the only one who survived and that was one of the reasons we had to go to Luwanda.
As someone who was raising the refugee camp, I can tell you that the life in the camp was not easy.
The hardest part was just seeing people facing hunger.
And since I never had a big brother to support me,
all these kids would come and beat me up, hitting me.
I just felt like I was a victim, even though there was all this sadness,
I knew there was God out there who cares for people.
So what I did was I started paying to God.
Then I started going to the Catholic church to look for him.
At the age of seven, I saw these two women,
because I came to know that they were witnesses.
I was so inspired by their smile and these women had the Bible in their hands
and the track they gave me was about paradise.
Now knowing that there is a hope, there is a hope for the future,
there is something good coming, knowing that there is a meaning of life.
These brought me so much joy.
Then I met this kid who went to his book.
As I opened the book, there was a scripture from Exodus, chapter 20, verse 4.
In that verse, it shows you must now worship any other gods.
When I read these words, I was so shocked.
I was so shocked.
And more than I was so disappointed of myself,
because now I know that I was doing something wrong.
I was now worshiping the true God.
From there on, I left the Catholic church.
I pray for the strength to go and to look for Jehovah's Witnesses,
to look for the Kingdom.
Then later, I went to the meeting.
I went to my first meeting, the unity among God's people.
That really touched me.
And then after that, everybody came and hugged me.
Show me this love I never said before.
And more than that, more than that, I went home knowing God's name is Jehovah.
This name was so special.
This name was just like full of strength and spirit.
The moment I started using Jehovah's name,
the moment I started praying to Jehovah.
He became so real to me.
He became my big brother.
He became more than a big brother.
Because when I prayed the first time in Jehovah's name,
that day, like all those kids were beating me,
who were hitting me up, now wanted to be my friend.
And this was the day after I went to my first meeting.
Really, Jehovah put a wall between my enemies.
Jehovah became my rescuer in that moment.
And right here, I knew this is my God.
And I was determined to never leave him.
I was determined to serve him my whole life.
In 2011, we ended up moving from Luwanda to the U.S.
And I asked this lady if she knew Winnesys.
And she said, yes, I know Winnesys.
So then, from then on, she called them
and I was able to reunite with my brothers and sisters.
In 2012, I got baptized.
And now I was officially one of Jehovah's Winnesys,
one of Jehovah's people.
So right after getting baptized,
more refugees kept coming in the country.
I knew what these refugees went through.
I knew they left their lives because they lived through their life.
Jehovah allowed me to be able to comfort these people.
Being in the darkness, it was so hard.
But now, for everything that Jehovah had done for me,
it just felt as if he pulled me out of this darkness.
Like, Son, come up.
He pulled me out of this darkness.
To the light.
You come to save Jehovah.
You rely on Jehovah.
You make Jehovah your salvation.
He show you who he is.